op-deployer + opcm documentation (#934)
ethereum-optimism/docs: pages/builders/chain-operators/tools/op-deployer.mdx

---
title: Deployer
lang: en-US
tags: ["op-deployer","eng-platforms"]
description: Learn how op-deployer can simplify deployment of the OP Stack.
---

import {Callout, Steps} from 'nextra/components'

# Deployer

`op-deployer` simplifies the process of deploying the the OP Stack. It works similarly to [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io). Like Terraform, you define a declarative config file called an "intent," then run a
command to apply the intent to your chain. `op-deployer` will compare the state of your chain against the intent,
and make whatever changes are necessary for them to match.

## Installation

`op-deployer` is currently under active development, and must be compiled from source. Assuming you have the Go
toolchain installed, you can install `op-deployer` by running `go install github.

> com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/op-chain-ops/cmd/op-deployer@latest`. This will install the `op-deployer` binary to

Reviewer: looks like `github.com` renders with a space between, as `github. com`

Reviewer 2: I kept having the `go install` command with the following error:
`go: github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/op-chain-ops/cmd/op-deployer@latest: module github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/op-chain-ops@latest found (v0.10.14), but does not contain package github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/op-chain-ops/cmd/op-deployer`

go install was grabbing the [v1.9.2 release](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism) which doesn't have op-deployer yet.

I fixed this by cloning the Optimism monoreo from `develop` and then running `go install` directly from the op-deployer directory.

I know that this is a draft PR so I'm probably ahead of the eventual release, just flagging this for anyone else who's also sitting on the bleeding edge haha

Reviewer 3: Yeah this doesn't work with the monorepo. I've updated the directions with how to build from source.

Reviewer 3: Long term, we'll want to support package releases (e.g. Deb/Homebrew).

your local `GOPATH`.

## Usage

### Configuring your Chain

The first step to using `op-deployer` is to create an intent file. The intent file describes how you want your chain
to look when it is done being deployed. `op-deployer` has a utility for this. Run the following command to generate
an example intent file for a development chain:

```
op-deployer init --l1-chain-id 11155111 --l2-chain-ids 12345 --workdir .deployer
```

This command will create a directory called `.deployer` in your current working directory containing the intent file
and an empty `state.json` file. `state.json` is populated with the results of your deployment, and never needs to
be edited directly.

> Your intent file will look something like this:

Reviewer: we'll need to update this to explain how the new `useStandard` flag works, cc @mslipper

Reviewer 3: let's do that after the flag is added to the implementation itself, since it doesn't exist in op-deployer yet.

```toml
l1ChainID = 11155111 # The chain ID of the L1 chain you'll be deploying to
fundDevAccounts = true # Whether or not to fund dev accounts using the test... junk mnemonic on L2.
contractsRelease = "op-contracts/v1.6.0" # The version of the smart contracts to deploy.

# List of L2s to deploy. op-deployer can deploy multiple L2s at once
[[chains]]
# Your chain's ID, encoded as a 32-byte hex string

> id = "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000003039"

Reviewer: not urgent, but would be nice if we can support decimal input here, cc @mslipper

Reviewer 3: will add to backlog

# Various ownership roles for your chain. When you use op-deployer init, these roles are generated using the
# test... junk mnemonic. You should replace these with your own addresses for production chains.
[chains.roles]
proxyAdminOwner = "0x7759a8a43aa6a7ee9434ddb597beed64180c40fd"
systemConfigOwner = "0x8e35d9523a0c4c9ac537d254079c2398c6f3b35f"
governanceTokenOwner = "0x7759a8a43aa6a7ee9434ddb597beed64180c40fd"
unsafeBlockSigner = "0xbb19dce4ce51f353a98dbab31b5fa3bc80dc7769"
batcher = "0x0e9c62712ab826e06b16b2236ce542f711eaffaf"
proposer = "0x86dfafe0689e20685f7872e0cb264868454627bc"
challenger = "0xf1658da627dd0738c555f9572f658617511c49d5"
```

See the comments for what each field does. By default, `op-deployer` will fill in all other configuration variables
with those that match our standard config. You can override these defaults by adding them to your intent file, but
that won't be covered here.

### Applying your Intent

Now that you've created your intent file, you can apply it to your chain. Run the following command to do so:

```

> op-deployer apply --workdir .deployer --l1-rpc-url <rpc-url> --private-key <private key hex>

Reviewer: I suspect a question that will come up is how to use a hardware wallet. Assuming this is correct, can we add something like: "using a hardware wallet is not currently supported, but this deployer key has no privileges so you can use an ephemeral hot wallet here"

```

This command will deploy the OP Stack to L1. It will deploy all L2s specified in the intent file. Superchain
configuration will be set to the Superchain-wide defaults - i.e., your chain will be opted into the Superchain pause

> and will use the same protocol versions address as other chains on the Superchain.

Reviewer: we should link to applicable docs for more info here

toolchain installed, you can install `op-deployer` by following these steps:

<Steps>
    ### **Clone the Monorepo**:

    Run the following command to clone the monorepo:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism.git
    ```

    ### **Build the Binary**:

    Run the following commands to build the binary:

    ```bash
    cd op-chain-ops
    make op-deployer
    ```

    ### (Optional) Move `op-deployer` Into `$PATH`

    Run the following command to move the `op-deployer` binary into your `$PATH`. Note that the path for your system
    may be different:

    ```bash
    sudo mv ./bin/op-deployer /usr/local/bin/op-deployer
    ```
</Steps>

## Usage

### Configuring your Chain

The first step to using `op-deployer` is to create an intent file. The intent file describes how you want your chain
to look when it is done being deployed. `op-deployer` has a utility for this. Run the following command to generate
an example intent file for a development chain:

```
op-deployer init --l1-chain-id 11155111 --l2-chain-ids 12345 --workdir .deployer
```

> This command will create a directory called `.deployer` in your current working directory containing the intent file

Reviewer 4: This command didn't automatically create a `.deployer` file for me. 

I got the following error:

```bash
Application failed: failed to write intent to file: open .deployer/intent.toml3411964358: no such file or directory
```

Only when I created `.deployer` myself did it work.

Reviewer 3: fixed in https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/pull/12230

and an empty `state.json` file. `state.json` is populated with the results of your deployment, and never needs to
be edited directly.

> Your intent file will look something like this:

Reviewer 4: After following through the steps, my intent file looks slightly different: 

```toml
l1ChainID = 11155111
fundDevAccounts = true
contractsRelease = "dev"

[superchainRoles]
  proxyAdminOwner = "0xb9cdf788704088a4c0191d045c151fcbe2db14a4"
  protocolVersionsOwner = "0x85d646ed26c3f46400ede51236d8d7528196849b"
  guardian = "0x8c7e4a51acb17719d225bd17598b8a94b46c8767"

[[chains]]
  id = "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
  [chains.roles]
    proxyAdminOwner = "0xec1c34d0f261bf90792ee87423d6e315bba6cf37"
    systemConfigOwner = "0xe5e2d4c4513aa038c0526103ab250e93c0a8167e"
    governanceTokenOwner = "0xec1c34d0f261bf90792ee87423d6e315bba6cf37"
    unsafeBlockSigner = "0xeed329483e4539a45db863df7b50436d50cc5276"
    batcher = "0xa5d32fadc0d92febc80cfe80bb6992a23549a516"
    proposer = "0x8c161d85fdc086ac6726bcede39f2ccb1afa3bc8"
    challenger = "0xd308a07f97db36c338e8fe2afb09267781d00811"

[[chains]]
  id = "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000003039"
  [chains.roles]
    proxyAdminOwner = "0x7759a8a43aa6a7ee9434ddb597beed64180c40fd"
    systemConfigOwner = "0x8e35d9523a0c4c9ac537d254079c2398c6f3b35f"
    governanceTokenOwner = "0x7759a8a43aa6a7ee9434ddb597beed64180c40fd"
    unsafeBlockSigner = "0xbb19dce4ce51f353a98dbab31b5fa3bc80dc7769"
    batcher = "0x0e9c62712ab826e06b16b2236ce542f711eaffaf"
    proposer = "0x86dfafe0689e20685f7872e0cb264868454627bc"
    challenger = "0xf1658da627dd0738c555f9572f658617511c49d5"
    ```
`op-deployer` seems to include two `[[chains]]` sections.

Reviewer 3: fixed in https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/pull/12230

[[chains]]
# Your chain's ID, encoded as a 32-byte hex string
id = "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000003039"
# Various ownership roles for your chain. When you use op-deployer init, these roles are generated using the
# test... junk mnemonic. You should replace these with your own addresses for production chains.
[chains.roles]
proxyAdminOwner = "0x7759a8a43aa6a7ee9434ddb597beed64180c40fd"
systemConfigOwner = "0x8e35d9523a0c4c9ac537d254079c2398c6f3b35f"
governanceTokenOwner = "0x7759a8a43aa6a7ee9434ddb597beed64180c40fd"
unsafeBlockSigner = "0xbb19dce4ce51f353a98dbab31b5fa3bc80dc7769"
batcher = "0x0e9c62712ab826e06b16b2236ce542f711eaffaf"
proposer = "0x86dfafe0689e20685f7872e0cb264868454627bc"
challenger = "0xf1658da627dd0738c555f9572f658617511c49d5"
```

See the comments for what each field does. By default, `op-deployer` will fill in all other configuration variables
with those that match our standard config. You can override these defaults by adding them to your intent file, but
that won't be covered here.

### Applying your Intent

Now that you've created your intent file, you can apply it to your chain. Run the following command to do so:

```

> op-deployer apply --workdir .deployer --l1-rpc-url <rpc-url> --private-key <private key hex>

Reviewer 4: I get the error:
```bash
Application failed: invalid intent: contractArtifactsURL must be set in dev mode
```

when I run the `apply` command. 

Maybe these docs are now outdated but the paragrah:

```
By default, op-deployer will fill in all other configuration variables with those that match our standard config. You can override these defaults by adding them to your intent file, but that won't be covered here.
```

is somewhat inaccurate based on my results.

Reviewer 3: fixed in https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/pull/12230.

---
title: Deployer
lang: en-US
tags: ["op-deployer","eng-platforms"]
description: Learn how op-deployer can simplify deployment of the OP Stack.
---

import {Callout, Steps} from 'nextra/components'

# Deployer

`op-deployer` simplifies the process of deploying the OP Stack. It works similarly to [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io). Like Terraform, you define a declarative config file called an "intent," then run a
command to apply the intent to your chain. `op-deployer` will compare the state of your chain against the intent,
and make whatever changes are necessary for them to match.

## Installation

> `op-deployer` is currently under active development, and must be compiled from source. Assuming you have the Go

Reviewer 5: Is `Go toolchain` something we should link out to in one way or another? I'm not too Go savvy so I'm not sure if this is something folks would understand or need directions over.

Author: the intended audience should be good

toolchain installed, you can install `op-deployer` by following these steps:

<Steps>
    ### **Clone the Monorepo**:

    Run the following command to clone the monorepo:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism.git
    ```

    ### **Build the Binary**:

    Run the following commands to build the binary:

    ```bash
    cd op-chain-ops
    make op-deployer
    ```

    ### (Optional) Move `op-deployer` Into `$PATH`

    Run the following command to move the `op-deployer` binary into your `$PATH`. Note that the path for your system
    may be different:

    ```bash
    sudo mv ./bin/op-deployer /usr/local/bin/op-deployer
    ```
</Steps>

## Usage

### Configuring your Chain

> The first step to using `op-deployer` is to create an intent file. The intent file describes how you want your chain
> to look when it is done being deployed. `op-deployer` has a utility for this. Run the following command to generate
> an example intent file for a development chain:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To get started with `op-deployer`, you need to create an intent file that outlines your desired chain configuration. You can use the built-in `op-deployer` utility to generate this file. Just run the following command to create an example intent file for a development chain:
```

Your intent file will look something like this:

```toml
l1ChainID = 11155111 # The chain ID of the L1 chain you'll be deploying to
fundDevAccounts = true # Whether or not to fund dev accounts using the test... junk mnemonic on L2.
contractsRelease = "op-contracts/v1.6.0" # The version of the smart contracts to deploy.

# List of L2s to deploy. op-deployer can deploy multiple L2s at once
[[chains]]
# Your chain's ID, encoded as a 32-byte hex string
id = "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000003039"
# Various ownership roles for your chain. When you use op-deployer init, these roles are generated using the
# test... junk mnemonic. You should replace these with your own addresses for production chains.
[chains.roles]
proxyAdminOwner = "0x7759a8a43aa6a7ee9434ddb597beed64180c40fd"
systemConfigOwner = "0x8e35d9523a0c4c9ac537d254079c2398c6f3b35f"
governanceTokenOwner = "0x7759a8a43aa6a7ee9434ddb597beed64180c40fd"
unsafeBlockSigner = "0xbb19dce4ce51f353a98dbab31b5fa3bc80dc7769"
batcher = "0x0e9c62712ab826e06b16b2236ce542f711eaffaf"
proposer = "0x86dfafe0689e20685f7872e0cb264868454627bc"
challenger = "0xf1658da627dd0738c555f9572f658617511c49d5"
```

> See the comments for what each field does. By default, `op-deployer` will fill in all other configuration variables

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
See the code comments above for explanations of each field. By default, `op-deployer` will fill in all other configuration variables
```

with those that match our standard config. You can override these defaults by adding them to your intent file, but

> that won't be covered here.

Reviewer 5: Why aren't we covering this? I think we should explain why OR warn users as to why they shouldn't

Author: Thanks for clarifying this Matt,

### Applying your Intent

> Now that you've created your intent file, you can apply it to your chain. Run the following command to do so:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Now that you've created your intent file, you can apply it to your chain:
```

```
op-deployer apply --workdir .deployer --l1-rpc-url <rpc-url> --private-key <private key hex>
```

> Using a hardware wallet is currently not supported, but this deployer key has no privileges so an ephemeral hot wallet
> can be used.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Hardware wallets are not supported, but you can use ephemeral hot wallets since this deployer key has no privileges.
```

This command will deploy the OP Stack to L1. It will deploy all L2s specified in the intent file. Superchain

> configuration will be set to the Superchain-wide defaults - i.e., your chain will be opted into the Superchain pause

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
configuration will be set to the Superchain-wide defaults - i.e., your chain will be opted into the [Superchain pause](https://specs.optimism.io/protocol/superchain-configuration.html#pausability)
```

Reviewer 5: Not sure if this needs a link, but I had to look it up and I assume others might too.

and will use the same [protocol versions](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/specs/blob/main/specs/protocol/superchain-upgrades.md)
address as other chains on the Superchain.

### Generating Genesis Files

With the contracts deployed, you can generate a genesis file for any of your L2s. Run the following command to do so:

```
./bin/op-deployer inspect genesis <l2-chain-id> --outfile genesis.json
```

> This will write the genesis file to genesis.json. You can change the `--outfile` parameter to write it somewhere

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This will write the genesis file to `genesis.json`. You can change the `--outfile` parameter to write it somewhere
```

> else. You can run another member of the `inspect` family, `rollup`, to get the rollup.json file:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
else. You can run another member of the `inspect` family, `rollup`, to get the `rollup.json` file:
```
